ESMF_CoupledFlow                    README
----------------                    ------

This README file provides instructions for how to build and run the
ESMF_CoupledFlow demo application. Detailed discussion of the internal
workings of the code, including its application of the ESMF API, are
provided in the ESMF_CoupledFlow document. The ESMF_CoupledFlow document
is available online at the ESMF web site http://www.earthsystemmodeling.org/
under Users -> Code Examples -> External Demos -> ESMF_CoupledFlow.


Building the ESMF_CoupledFlow demo application
----------------------------------------------

The application source code is accompanied by a portable Makefile that
builds the executable as its default target. This Makefile is expected
to work correctly unmodified on any system where ESMF is installed, and
environment variable ESMFMKFILE is set according to the instructions given
in section "Building and Installing the ESMF" of the ESMF User's Guide.

   CAUTION: The ESMF_CoupledFlow demo application must be built against an
            ESMF library installation that provides PIO and NetCDF support.
            See section "Building and Installing the ESMF" of the
            ESMF User's Guide for details on how to enable these third party 
            dependencies during the ESMF library build process.


Running the ESMF_CoupledFlow demo application
---------------------------------------------

The input namelist files coupled_app_input, coupled_flow_input,
coupled_inject_input are read by the demo application from 'data' directory
relative to the current working directory on a unix operating system.
Successful execution of the demo application depends on the existence of the
correct namelist files. If the current working directory is $CWD, then these
namelist files must be stored in $CWD/data for the demo application to succeed.

The provided generic Makefile does _not_ contain a run target. Executing
binaries, especially in parallel, is an inherently system-dependent procedure.
The ESMF_CoupledFlow executable must be run according to these specific
procedures. In general the correct procedure depends on whether the executable
was built against an mpiuni- or MPI-based ESMF library installation, and in the
latter case on which MPI implementation was chosen. For most systems, the MPI
version of the ESMF_CoupledFlow demo application can be executed by a command
equivalent to:

mpirun -np X ./ESMF_CoupledFlow

where X specifies the total number of PETs.

    CAUTION: The ESMF_CoupledFlow demo application requires X to be a multiple
             of 4.
             
After successful execution of the ESMF_CoupledFlow demo application a message
will be printed to stdout indicating SUCCESS. The application generates a
series of output files:

PET0.ESMF_LogFile - ESMF log file containing all error messages logged.

DE.nc             - NetCDF file containing decomposition element ids.
FLAG.nc           - NetCDF file containing flag of boundary conditions.
OMEGA.nc          - NetCDF file containing time series of vorticity.
SIE.nc            - NetCDF file containing time series of internal energy.
U_velocity.nc     - NetCDF file containing time series of U velocity component.
V_velocity.nc     - NetCDF file containing time series of V velocity component.

The user can use standard NetCDF tools to analyze the data output files. Some
files store an entire time series of the output variable. The tool "ncview" is
particularly useful to view time series in an animated form. Decreasing the 
"printout" value in the "coupled_flow_input" of the demo will increase the
frequency of data output, resulting in a smoother animation.

All output data files are removed by the "dust" Makefile target.

The "clean" Makefile target removes all object, module and the executable file.

The "distclean" Makefile target combines the "dust" and "clean" targets.
